README.md, before:

# AveAzul

AveAzul ("Blue Bird" in Spanish) is a Promise library that extends native Promises with Bluebird-like utility methods. Built on top of native Promises, it provides a familiar API for Node.js developers who are used to working with [Bluebird](https://github.com/petkaantonov/bluebird) ([npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bluebird)).

This library helps migrate legacy code that uses Bluebird specific APIs to native Promises with minimal changes. It aims to provide a drop-in replacement that maintains compatibility while leveraging native Promises.

Do you prefer Bluebird's API with native Promises? AveAzul gives you both - familiar Bluebird methods built on native Promise.

## Installation

```bash
npm install aveazul
```

## Usage

```javascript
const AveAzul = require("aveazul");

// Basic Promise usage
const promise = new AveAzul((resolve) => resolve(42));
promise.then((value) => console.log(value)); // 42

// Utility methods
AveAzul.resolve([1, 2, 3])
  .map((x) => x * 2)
  .filter((x) => x > 2)
  .then((result) => console.log(result)); // [4, 6]

// Promisify callback-style functions
const fs = require("fs");
const readFile = AveAzul.promisify(fs.readFile);
readFile("file.txt").then((content) => console.log(content));
// Properties from the original function are preserved
console.log(readFile.length); // Original function's length property

// Promisify all methods of an object
const obj = {
  method(cb) {
    cb(null, "result");
  },
};
AveAzul.promisifyAll(obj);
obj.methodAsync().then((result) => console.log(result)); // 'result'

// Resource management with disposer and using
const getResource = () => {
  return AveAzul.resolve({
    data: "important data",
    close: () => console.log("Resource closed!"),
  }).disposer((resource) => resource.close());
};

AveAzul.using(getResource(), (resource) => {
  console.log(resource.data); // "important data"
  return AveAzul.resolve("operation completed");
}).then((result) => {
  console.log(result); // "operation completed"
  // Resource is automatically closed here, even if an error occurred
});
```

## API

### Instance Methods

- `tap(fn)` - Execute side effects and return original value
- `filter(fn)` - Filter array elements
- `map(fn)` - Transform array elements
- `return(value)` - Inject a new value
- `each(fn)` - Iterate over array elements
- `delay(ms)` - Delay resolution
- `timeout(ms, message?)` - Reject after specified time
- `props(obj)` - Resolve object properties
- `tapCatch(fn)` - Execute side effects on rejection
- `reduce(fn, initialValue?)` - Reduce array elements
- `throw(reason)` - Return rejected promise
- `catchThrow(reason)` - Catch and throw new error
- `catchReturn(value)` - Catch and return value
- `get(propertyPath)` - Retrieve property value
- `disposer(fn)` - Create a disposer for use with AveAzul.using() for resource cleanup

### Static Methods

- `delay(ms, value?)` - Resolve after specified time
- `map(value, fn)` - Transform array elements
- `try(fn)` - Wrap sync/async functions
- `props(obj)` - Resolve object properties
- `defer()` - Create a deferred promise
- `promisify(fn, options?)` - Convert callback-style functions to promises (preserves original function properties)
- `each(items, fn)` - Iterate over array elements
- `reduce(array, fn, initialValue?)` - Reduce array elements
- `method(fn)` - Creates a method that returns a promise resolving to the value returned by the original function
- `throw(reason)` - Return rejected promise
- `promisifyAll(target, options?)` - Convert all methods of an object/class to promises
- `using(resources, fn)` - Manage resources with automatic cleanup

### PromisifyAll Options

- `suffix` (default: 'Async') - Suffix to append to promisified method names
- `filter` - Filter function to determine which methods to promisify
- `promisifier` - Custom function to handle promisification
- `multiArgs` (default: false) - Whether to support multiple callback arguments

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run tests
npm test
npm run test:watch
npm run test:coverage
```

## License

Apache-2.0

## Author

Joel Chen

Commit message:

add join, spread and fromCallback, fix promisify, using and tap

README.md, after:

# AveAzul

AveAzul ("Blue Bird" in Spanish) is a Promise library that extends native Promises with Bluebird-like utility methods. Built on top of native Promises, it provides a familiar API for Node.js developers who are used to working with [Bluebird](https://github.com/petkaantonov/bluebird) ([npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bluebird)).

This library helps migrate legacy code that uses Bluebird specific APIs to native Promises with minimal changes. It aims to provide a drop-in replacement that maintains compatibility while leveraging native Promises.

Do you prefer Bluebird's API with native Promises? AveAzul gives you both - familiar Bluebird methods built on native Promise.

## Installation

```bash
npm install aveazul
```

## Usage

```javascript
const AveAzul = require("aveazul");

// Basic Promise usage
const promise = new AveAzul((resolve) => resolve(42));
promise.then((value) => console.log(value)); // 42

// Utility methods
AveAzul.resolve([1, 2, 3])
  .map((x) => x * 2)
  .filter((x) => x > 2)
  .then((result) => console.log(result)); // [4, 6]

// Promisify callback-style functions
const fs = require("fs");
const readFile = AveAzul.promisify(fs.readFile);
readFile("file.txt").then((content) => console.log(content));
// Properties from the original function are preserved
console.log(readFile.length); // Original function's length property

// Promisify all methods of an object
const obj = {
  method(cb) {
    cb(null, "result");
  },
};
AveAzul.promisifyAll(obj);
obj.methodAsync().then((result) => console.log(result)); // 'result'

// Resource management with disposer and using
const getResource = () => {
  return AveAzul.resolve({
    data: "important data",
    close: () => console.log("Resource closed!"),
  }).disposer((resource) => resource.close());
};

AveAzul.using(getResource(), (resource) => {
  console.log(resource.data); // "important data"
  return AveAzul.resolve("operation completed");
}).then((result) => {
  console.log(result); // "operation completed"
  // Resource is automatically closed here, even if an error occurred
});

// Using spread to apply array results as arguments
AveAzul.all([getUser(1), getPosts(1), getComments(1)]).spread(
  (user, posts, comments) => {
    // Instead of using .then(([user, posts, comments]) => {...})
    console.log(
      `User ${user.name} has ${posts.length} posts and ${comments.length} comments`
    );
    return { user, activity: { posts, comments } };
  }
);
```

## API

### Instance Methods

- `tap(fn)` - Execute side effects and return original value
- `filter(fn)` - Filter array elements
- `map(fn)` - Transform array elements
- `return(value)` - Inject a new value
- `each(fn)` - Iterate over array elements
- `delay(ms)` - Delay resolution
- `timeout(ms, message?)` - Reject after specified time
- `props(obj)` - Resolve object properties
- `spread(fn)` - Apply array values as arguments to function
- `tapCatch(fn)` - Execute side effects on rejection
- `reduce(fn, initialValue?)` - Reduce array elements
- `throw(reason)` - Return rejected promise
- `catchThrow(reason)` - Catch and throw new error
- `catchReturn(value)` - Catch and return value
- `get(propertyPath)` - Retrieve property value
- `disposer(fn)` - Create a disposer for use with AveAzul.using() for resource cleanup

### Static Methods

- `delay(ms, value?)` - Resolve after specified time
- `map(value, fn)` - Transform array elements
- `try(fn)` - Wrap sync/async functions
- `props(obj)` - Resolve object properties
- `defer()` - Create a deferred promise
- `promisify(fn, options?)` - Convert callback-style functions to promises (preserves original function properties)
- `fromNode(fn, options?)` - Convert Node-style callback functions to promise-returning functions
- `fromCallback(fn, options?)` - Alias for fromNode
- `each(items, fn)` - Iterate over array elements
- `reduce(array, fn, initialValue?)` - Reduce array elements
- `method(fn)` - Creates a method that returns a promise resolving to the value returned by the original function
- `throw(reason)` - Return rejected promise
- `promisifyAll(target, options?)` - Convert all methods of an object/class to promises
- `using(resources, fn)` - Manage resources with automatic cleanup
- `join(...values, handler?)` - Wait for multiple promises and pass their resolved values as separate arguments to the handler function. If no handler is provided, behaves like Promise.all

### PromisifyAll Options

- `suffix` (default: 'Async') - Suffix to append to promisified method names
- `filter` - Filter function to determine which methods to promisify
- `promisifier` - Custom function to handle promisification
- `multiArgs` (default: false) - Whether to support multiple callback arguments

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run tests
npm test
npm run test:watch
npm run test:coverage
```

## License

Apache-2.0

## Author

Joel Chen
